# BUILDINGAI

Final project for this  Building AI course

## Summary

In my analysis I refer to the article https://www.scientificamerican.com/article/ai-anxiety-is-on-the-rise-heres-how-to-manage-it/ about "AI anxiety is on the rise here how to manage it".  It examines the phenomenon of "AI anxiety" which is described as a fear of uncertainty driven by rapid technological advancements in generative AI. It raises concerns about potential job losses and the erosion of human creativity. On the one hand, it is deeply human to seek for better solution, to advance and use less resources to achieve more. This is driving human evolution over time. Currently, rapid technological development might seem overwhelming for some. However, I wonder if a general "AI anxiety" can be justified? On the one hand, technologcal advancements like AI or in the last decades, mobile phones or smart phone technology in our society made jobs obsolete. It is true that the job market changed, to a certain extent at a faster pace than humans were able to re-educate to adjust to the changing job market. Fears about job displacemnts, privacy concerns, ethical risks, possibly based AI algorithms are realistic. Simple upskilling or collective action may oversimplify challenges. On the other hand, AI can help to revolutionize medical treatments and regulatory efforts like EUs GDPR can help to tackle AIs complexity, however structural barriers are new frontiers that need to be addressed in order to cope with deep fakes, equal rather unbiased access for humans and for example basic universal income to compensate job losses. However, acknowledging "AI anxiety" can also contribute as encouraging to learn and advocate for ethical AI use like AI transperancy laws etc. to ensure that human evolution can keep up with the rapid advancement in technology. It’s upon us individually and us as society and us as humans to make a difference, learn and advocate.


